This project is basically a clone of a WordPress theme made by Anariel Design. You can check out the original here: [anarieldesign.com]. I found it on the Envato site’s marketplace and wanted to see if I could make it with my own code. Obviously, I didn’t design this website, but the code in this project is all my own.  I only referred to the original site’s CSS for a particular font, color, or something like that. I made it with React.js and “create-react-app.”  The routing was done with React Router v4, and the Google maps component was made with React Google Maps. Other than that, it’s just plain HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.

I like how React renders and re-renders only the elements on the page that have their state changed. With so many users on mobile devices, anything that cuts down on load time or fewer server calls is bound to make a better user experience. I’ve also found React great to work with. It encourages you to think in terms of components and break pages down into smaller and more manageable parts.  Combining React with the syntactic sugar of JSX, rendering HTML inside JavaScript has become clear and concise. These components are also easy to reuse, another huge time saver. The data for the shopping cart is persisted through local storage, partly because I don’t know much about backend development right now. But I also thought it might contribute to user experience. With local storage there’s no time waiting for server calls, and if the user goes offline for any reason they still have access to their data. I did use a little spinning wheel to simulate a database call, as I know that’s still often the go-to way of doing things and it’s good to give user feedback.

In general, when laying out the pages I opted for the more modern tools like CSS Flexbox and Grid instead of the older methods that use things like the CSS clear and float properties. I know these older methods are still useful when your users have older browsers that don’t support the newer technologies. I just find the newer stuff more intuitive and easier to use, and of course I want to be up-to-date. I also tried to use the newer JavaScript syntax as much as I could, again because it’s powerful and concise.

I know this project is far from perfect. It’s my first serious attempt at developing a website. I tried to focus on just getting the main functionality down and making it responsive. I think my future projects will have a more consistent and better organized file structure. I tried to write straightforward self-documenting code, but I will comment my code more. Also, I might try using a CSS-preprocessor like Sass to make my stylesheets less repetitive and better organized. Overall, working on this project has been a great learning experience for me. Hopefully, in time I can work on even fancier projects and become a full-fledged developer.
